- As a Java developer, you're always dealing
with tools like NetBeans, IntelliJ, and Eclipse,
and you're used to debugging your application
in those IDE's.
Now, how do I bring those skillsets
when I'm building my application
in Kubernetes, and deploying in them?
This section will explain
how you can debug a kubernetes pod,
if a cluster is running on your local machine.
So, first thing first, deploy our Helm chart.
So, let's go to our manifest charts directory,
and now, I'm going to install my helm chart.
Helm, install, name, myapp, myapp.
And this deploys my application.
Let's confirm it.
We, of corse, have to say get before this.
And so we can see all the resources
have been successfully deployed.
So, we are in good shape over there.
Now let's go to IntelliJ,
for example, in this case,
and set up a break point over there.
Here's my mavin project
that is in IntelliJ here, essentially.
And here is my greeting controller.
These are my main business logic.
Remember this is a very
intentionally simple application.
So now, what I'm going to do is
I'm just going to set up a break point over here.
That's the first thing I need to do.
The second thing I need to do is
I need to set up IntelliJ
so that it can connect to a remote JVM.
So, I go to run, debug,
edit the configuration here,
add a new remote config here,
and we are going to call it as Kubernetes,
and take everything else as default.
It says local host 5005.
That's what is going to connect to our JVM.
And it expects that this is the command
that's going to be in your Docker image essentially.
Now if you remember from our Docker file
on how we build this image,
this is exactly the command that we took
and inserted into our Docker file
as underscore java underscore options.
So that's sort of the way
by which you are connecting
your JVM and your Docker file
and making sure the options go past through.
And then, in the service
and in the deployment, we were exposing those ports
so that now they are accessible
to the outside world as well.
So let's hit on debug here.
And IntelliJ is now connected to the target PM
and is waiting for somebody
to initiate a request on that, okay.
So, in our terminal we're going to access our service,
and we're going to say curl http
local host colon 8080 hello
This invokes the service.
As soon as we invoke the service,
we can see our shift automatically focus to IntelliJ.
This is because IntelliJ now received the request
that, hey, someone is talking to me on the remote JVM,
and it shows the complete pack for you
on how the java core hierarchy looks like.
Now in our case, we of corse,
don't have any variables defined,
but if there were, then it'd show you all the class fields.
You could essentially use your
standard java debugging tools to talk through this,
to walk through this, to trace through this,
see all the values and then
debug your coverness application very easily.
Now at this point in time, I can just say
go ahead, run the application.
So, of corse, the application execution finished,
but let's go back to our terminal
and see what output is over there.
As expected, output is certainly hello.
So, once again, now we saw how we can debug our java
application running as a Kubernetes pod
deployed in a local Kubernetes cluster.